======================
Homework assignment #2
======================

To turn in your homework, you need **a PR** and **an E3 entry for the PR URL**.

Your PR needs to be created against the ``hw2`` branch.  (Not ``master``!) You
need to create a sub-directory using exactly your GitHub username as your
working directory (``nsdhw_21sp/hw2/$username/``).  The hierarchy should be::

  - nsdhw_21sp (<- repository root)
    - hw2
      - username (<- your working directory)
        - q1
          - files
        - q2
          - files

In **every commit** in your PR, you can only change the files in your working
directory.  You may not touch anything else.  Failure to follow may cost you
points.

Please make sure your PR passes the Github Action CI, and is compatible with
the latest NSD AMI on AWS (it uses Ubuntu 20.04 LTS) in ``us-east-1``.  (Your
branch name should start with ``<username>-hw2**``, e.g,
``yungyuc-hw2-attempt1``.  See the CI configuration file and the Github Action
documentation.)  You are not required to use the AMI for doing the homework,
but the grader uses it to run your code.  If your code fails to build or run on
it, **you can lose points**.

The validating script (``validate.sh``) does not cover all conditions.  It is
not the sole standard for grading.  The grader may only use it as reference and
has the right to modify the final score according to the student's
implementation.  But the script can help you understand what to do for the
homework assignment (see the "`GRADING NOTE`" in it).  Ask the grader or the
instructor if you have any questions.

Question 1
==========

Reimplement the class ``Line`` by using STL containers instead of raw pointers:

.. code-block:: cpp

  class Line
  {
  public:
      Line();
      Line(Line const & );
      Line(Line       &&);
      Line & operator=(Line const & );
      Line & operator=(Line       &&);
      Line(size_t size);
      ~Line();
      size_t size() const;
      float & x(size_t it) const;
      float & x(size_t it);
      float & y(size_t it) const;
      float & y(size_t it);
  private:
      // Member data.
  }; /* end class Line */

  int main(int, char **)
  {
      Line line(3);
      line.x(0) = 0; line.y(0) = 1;
      line.x(1) = 1; line.y(1) = 3;
      line.x(2) = 2; line.y(2) = 5;

      Line line2(line);
      line2.x(0) = 9;

      std::cout << "line: number of points = " << line.size() << std::endl;
      for (size_t it=0; it<line.size(); ++it)
      {
          std::cout << "point " << it << ":"
                    << " x = " << line.x(it)
                    << " y = " << line.y(it) << std::endl;
      }

      std::cout << "line2: number of points = " << line.size() << std::endl;
      for (size_t it=0; it<line.size(); ++it)
      {
          std::cout << "point " << it << ":"
                    << " x = " << line2.x(it)
                    << " y = " << line2.y(it) << std::endl;
      }

      return 0;
  }

You may copy-n-paste the above ``main`` function.  It's not suggested to
copy-n-paste the class declaration.

In a sub-directory under your ``$WORK`` directory, the code needs to be built
by executing ``make``.  When a source file changes, ``make`` needs to pick it
up and rebuild.  ``make run`` needs to produce the correct terminal output,
without crashing.  ``make check`` redirects the terminal output to a file
``result.txt``.  ``make clean`` needs to remove all the built and intermediate
files.

Question 2
==========

Write a C++ function that calculates the angle (in radians) between two vectors
in the 2-dimensional Cartesian coordinate system.  Use `pybind11
<https://pybind11.readthedocs.io/en/stable/>`__ to wrap it to Python.  Use
Python unit-test to check the result is correct.  The test runner should be
`py.test <https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/>`__.

Similar to Question 1, in a sub-directory under your ``$WORK`` directory,
running ``make`` should build your code.  ``make test`` runs the Python-based
tests.  ``make clean`` removes all the built and intermediate files.
